@TracyDimond  I am just quoting the video.  When I see good things I try to set them out so others can see them clearly.  In the video it goes by in an instant, but as text we can read it again and again and think about it. I have been thinking about all the herbs, spices, and foods that humans eat.  Many things are indigestible even poison before they are prepared and cooked.  I work on things like "feed all humans a nutritious diet" and work out how that can be done safely and fairly for all humans and related species.
=====

I am RichardKCollin2, The Internet Foundation.  (for Grok context)

With that many students and faculty, and all the ones writing papers, Stanford can hardly miss such a broad target as "AI advances".  

It is interesting Zara mentions Harvard (1636, $53.2 Billion endowment) and Stanford (1885, 9400 undergraduate, 21000 graduate), One would think there are only a dozen schools in the world from the media frenzy.  

When the topic is hot, strike. Whether it is AI, CS, students grumbling or academics fighting. Controversy sells, boasting sells.  The quiet work of 100s of Millions just gets done and no one notices.  I think there  are about 25,000 colleges and universities in the world and they only focus on about 15,000 topics with a long tail.

Most any class anywhere (any time) will know that their professors are out of date on many things. It is simply not possible to educate billions of people in the world now using only paper and blackboards, talking heads, human memorization,  and too slow curation and processing of the world's knowledge into usable tools for everyone.

https://x.com/i/grok/share/JRrskM0w5DERKK0AS46NSmGHn

=====
So this person is not serious. just playing around?  I am RichardKCollin2, and I mean things seriously.  Here is what I write thinking bout my life and the people I have seen and met and worked with.

 I do not think I am unusual. In grade school, I learned generally three grades ahead and eventually more. I did not skip grades, but did not hold back when learning.  Once having  learned how to learn, a decade in not impossible to skip.  

Now, my grandkids were using tablets before they were a year old.  And learning to get the computer to give them what they want.  When I was in 3rd grade, I could make my way through anything in grade school with patience and effort.  Starting high school I was working at graduate level, because of living near Cape Canaveral and because everyone worked hard day and night with focus.  

There are Lots of people smarter and more determined than me. An AI can explain and show how to use any mathematics or algorithms and most CSTEM-FGO capabilities now.  

Even today's college students are smart enough (have not been taught to give up) and could work with AIs - simply by keeping the targets in focus and documenting what they find.  

They can ask the AIs to do that for them.  It is not hard, just a bit tedious requiring care in managing what is found.  When I grew up most kids 12 were adults and often working jobs alongside people decades older than them.  

Not everyone not everywhere. but in my life clear role models and examples abound.  There are about 2 billion kids now from 4 to 24 and they are living a completely different life, many of them.  Will they all have decent resources?  No, and that is the rub, the tragedy.  That is why I have been working at the Internet Foundation these last 27 years every day. It is worth doing -- to not abandon 99.99% of the human species or keep them all herded into slow pathways.

https://x.com/i/grok/share/mTiF42DYlGEBaL525N1YGkkcp

=====

I am RichardKCollin2, The Internet Foundation (for Grok context)

Yes, another of the technologies I track since it was born.  I tend to put more effort into finding or designing systems that are low cost, do not need expensive infrastructure, and work in all countries and small places in the world.  There are label-free methods that an be improved to help in more places and for more people

My first full time job after my second college was with the Texas State Department of hearth in communicable disease - epidemiology at city and regional and state level.  Every person individually and all people in the state.   (1972-1973).  Later I did much the same for all countries in the world, then Africa and the Famine Early Warning System.


I keep global issues in mind constantly, so I am evaluating these sensors mostly for use in global public health.  It cannot be tied to proprietary methods, it cannot be monopolized by greedy universities or corporations slapping patents and copyrights on everything with no thought for the future or for everyone.  It cannot be tied to rich research groups who waste most of their time and money on things they can brag about but never reach any one.  I learned about vapor deposition back when growing diamonds first came out, and ion implantation in every place it is used.  I know atomic scale modeling from when I was a freshman in high school in 1963.  

So it is not just carbon, but all atomic pairs, triple, quads and other combinations. And all isotopes of each. I have a standard way of evaluating methods that considers all materials and uses.  It is not completely automated, but still efficient.  

I would not make methods compete in application areas, but rather find all the places each can be used - and then help improve the entire global industry in parallel using Internet AI methods.  So all countries and needs are covered well. 

I asked Google AI if nitrogen vacancy methods are considered low cost now.  It said, "As of late 2025, nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center technology is becoming significantly more affordable for certain applications but is not yet considered universally low-cost. The cost depends heavily on the specific application, the quality of the NV diamonds, and the setup required. While research and miniaturization efforts are driving costs down for some quantum sensing and educational tools, high-precision, single-center systems remain expensive. "

https://x.com/i/grok/share/8Ojo3LerBP6o8pkqp8okLnLfc
=====

Physics is good, it is what I used for jobs.  Mathematical computer physics is a good combination to be able to tackle most any problem.  But I found I also needed accounting, finance, financial planning, demography, economics, management, policy development, negotiation, public speaking, team leadership, mentoring, modeling and simulation generally, a vast range of engineering (to be able to instantly absorb and evaluate any technology(, business intelligence, industry planning, long range planning, now biology and food technologies and bio engineering.

If you learn how all knowledge fits together, then there are tools and groups to do the pieces.  So you only need to find it all and see how it fits and see if anything is missing.  Then you just solve the missing pieces and every one else mostly knows their jobs.  Know how to use any discipline and how to get the AIs or humans or groups to do their jobs. 

Without knowing for sure where you want to put your effort and what you want to change, I can only suggest "do it all, let the computer do the remembering .and most of the work".  I am 76 and have been earning and learning for 60 years now.  Some of what I do is from habits of a life time.  And a long series of jobs and projects and topics I have worked on.  I did a lot of things because they felt right, even if there was no money or fame or leverage in it.  If it seemed to help lots of people, I did it, and keep working on the side to learn more.  60 hours for the man, another 40 for myself. And any life or sleep in the remainder.

=====

I wish I had another life time.  At 76 I can barely work 18 hours a day now.  If I can teach AIs or make them so they can mentor and teach and solve any problems in any field.  Perhaps I can do more.  I spent decades on dynamic gravitational fields for imaging, communication and forces.  Maybe I can finish some of that.  I wrote as much as I can but it is scattered. The AIs know more than I do now, at least GPT 5 does. And on some things Google AI.  but it requires a nearly universal background which I am trying to put into a browser for the internet to replace all the fragmentary methods now.

=====

I am RichardKCollin2, The Internet Foundation. (For Grok context)

This is not exactly the same thing, but a passion I have to see the sub atomic structure details of all things.  A chair, a potted plant, ordinary tools, a cup of water, a dinner with several kinds of food, a fish or crab or chicken, a tree,  the air, all things around us, large rocks, a mountain, the cutaways on highways going through hills and mountains, concrete, garden plants, flowing water. cars, houses

I can remember when it started in things like living in Colorado where roads cut through layers of rock, a quarry in Texas for limestone and other kinds of rocks.  The first time I saw flame spectroscopy when I was around 12 years old,  Knowing there  were atoms and molecules.  No matter how fine the slices there was always more detail if you sliced each slice,  Or at least new details, all the way down.  

I have looked and tried to understand every 3D scanning technology - ultrasound, MRI, those virtual autopsies,

So your macroscopic engine, I would scan it in 3D down to the nanometer (there are good statistical methods to do that in  a finite time) and then make a high resolution virtual image that a person could walk or fly through or have a 10 foot by 20 food wall, or a 3D display.  And show the chemical, energy, temperature, vibration, strain, mass, and other 3D parametric views of something ordinary but complex.

I always hated archaeology after reading God Graves and Scholars reading about how unique and impossible to replace things were dug up and destroyed.  Still are. Rather I would use 3D imaging methods including  subsurface imaging (I did that at Phillips Petroleum when they wanted help using microcomputers rather than mini computers in 1988.  putting th) or 3D scanning and replication technologies (for Sculptor.Org in the 10 years I created and ran it.  

There is a lot more.  All the years carving wood and stone by hand and machines, seeing the internal patterns and layers.  CNC methods for machining. All the lasers, water jet, abrasive water jet, plasma, electrical discharge machining, ion and plasma beams, building up layer by atomic layer, chemical vapor deposition, 3D sculpture, painting with ink jet, all the ink jet technologies, printing human bodies from the 5th Element.

I tried to find all the remote sensing technologies (the Famine Early Warning System), 3D scanning and chemical mapping in real time of chemical plants (Phillips Petroleum). Seeing the earliest full body MRI (about 1981 Georgetown University because we were close to NIH and those groups.

I am not writing t all or in order just remembering things that resonated. That I wanted dearly to understand and "see" and hold and explore.

Now I an see the whole of something like Starship Booster and look inside every part of it to see exactly how it works at zeptometer scale.  How fission works, how fusion works, how all the chemical and thermodynamic processes at a petrochemical plant work, all the details of all the chemical and mining methods work, whats inside every sensor, whats inside eery device. 

Decades trying to lower the cost of dynamic 3D gravitational imaging to look inside the earth, to monitor the atmosphere in real time using gravitational arrays.,  To monitor and track seismic wave in the earth in real time from every earthquake, track rain storms, track atmospheric rivers flows, use gravity to see all of that for comparison to other kinds of sensors and measurement networks. 

Magnetic model of the earth and solar systems and the universe, global climate change because it means seeing those kinds of 3D dynamic models.  Models of the interiors of planets, moons, asteroids, comets, suns.  Models of processing and benefication for all things.  Using fields to control all industrial chemical processes.  Processing regolith on Moon and Mars and Earth.

Probably 50,000 hours direct.  The whole of The Internet Foundation because I have wanted to see the whole of all human live and related species in real time the whole world and all its futures. All its details.

https://x.com/i/grok/share/uUdWq7ynk6owG5rHDaGvvKez6

=====
